
1. JDK vs JRE
JDK is the development kit that are used for developers, JDK includes JRE
JRE contains library, JVM implementation

2. Jar vs War
Jar is java achive, it contains all related files including java class, libraries and properties
War is web application achive, it can be deployed on any servlet container. 
The main difference is that war file follows certain structure that includes a WEB-INF

3. Interface vs Abstract
Interface: a contract between clients and server, all variables are public.It doesnt have data field.
and the methods are abstract that requires implementation by whatever classes that implements this interfaces;
A class can implements multiple interfaces.
Abstract class:  An abstract can have abstract method and concrete. variables can have different accesiablity.
There are some subclasses that have same behaviors, we don't have to write the same method over again. 
A class can only extends on abstract class.

4. serialization
It's a mechanism to convert the state of object to byte stream.
writeObject(object o)
readObject()
it is used to transfer objects from one machine to another machine. 


5. transient vs static
Transient in java means it is not a persistent state of an object, and this variable cannot be serialized

6. checked exception/ unchecked exception
checked exception is compiled
all runtime exception is classified as unchecked exception

7. why we use exception


8. finally, final, finalized()
how to create an immutable class: final class, cannot modify the data by subclass.


9. synchronized()
enable the lock explicitly, to work in multi-threading


10. How to create threads in java?
extend Thread class
implement Runnable Interface

11. autoboxing
use wrapper class, to primitive, autoboxing 

12. singleton design pattern, MVC controller


13. SOAP vs RESTFUL
Restful: http only; html, json; lightweight; test using simple url
SOAP

14. hibernate
servlet

15. servlet context object
web container object
data to shared on all objects

16. servlet config object

17. jsp

18. spring

19. spring modules, data acess, AOP, JSP

20. inject dependency
configure the bean, 
auto wiring process, by type, by name

21. main interface
application context
XML being 

22. overload vs override


24.
Swing

25.Serialisation

26.Networking: sockets

27. OOP concetps

28. Collections

29. what is driver in jdbc

30. difference between types of drivers in jdbc

31. SQL normalization
Normalization is a database design technique 
which organizes tables in a manner
that reduces redundancy and dependency of data.
It divides larger tables to smaller tables and links them using relationships.

32. automic

32.hashmap,treemap,linkedhashmap
Hashset,treeset, linkedhashset.
HashMap offers O(1) lookup and insertion. It is implemented by an array of linked lists.
TreeMap offers O(log N) lookup and insertion. Keys are ordered. It is implemented by a Red-Black Tree.
LinkedHashMap offers O(1) lookup and insertion. Keys are ordered by their insertion order. 
It is implemented by doubly-linked buckets.

